# BMD Distributed Hosting Projects
The raw sensor data will be stored on public distributed file storage protocols such as IPFS[2] via BlockMed open
source API[3] (See Figure 1). This not only enables other technology and framework such as IoT Fog/Edge computing framework proposed by Cisco[4] to take advantage of IPFS that has better performance than others such as Amazon S3[5], but also shows better performance gain with IPFS[6]. While we have chosen IPFS to start, we are not limited by IPFS, we are also researching other technologies including protocols and actual distributed storages such as BitTorrent, StorJ, Dat, etc.

Read more on our [whitepaper](https://www.slideshare.net/secret/4CGbQSZ5xrHU6w) page 5.

## Distributed Incentivized Application (dIApp)
We have created an incentiveid distributed application *dApp* and we called it *dIApp* because it is perhaps one of the first with incentivization built in to demonstrate how you can upload and access data via our smart contract to receive rewards on the application layer. The design is geared towards a blockchain agnostic design. You can refer to the code set [here](https://github.com/BlockMedical/bc-ipfs). As it evolves, integrating with source code control and other tools to track code lineage and code ownership is just the matter of time. With the incentivization built into your applications, you can integrate reward system via BlockMed and evolve your codeset. This provides you a full picture on how you can integrate with BMD smart contract on Ethereum and how your application can tap into the blockchain events (see our codeset [here](https://github.com/BlockMedical/BMD-eth-event-listener)).

## Distributed Hosting Large Datasets
The mission for these projects are to host big datasets that will benefit pipelines (e.g. ETL, data processing, etc.) and provide a diverse data source for their machine learning and AI projects. We have started by utilizing IPFS and one of the [desktop client Orion](https://github.com/BlockMedical/Orion/tree/feature/add-blockmed-register-func) to help people onboard and host their big datasets. Onward, these can be expanded to include various technologies to host datasets in a hetrogenous environment.

## Indexing and Full Text Searching on Big Datasets
In order to find the proper datasets for Machine Learning or AI algorithms coming from different domains, we initially selected Elastic Search, an open source full text indexing and search engine, to index these files registered with BlockMed. However, we are not limited to Elastic Search. The underline technology is based on the public blockchain events where we have imoplemented the [first version](https://github.com/BlockMedical/blockmed-eth-event-listener) to tap into Ethereum blockchain and retrieve the information with the help of Elastic Search, users will find it helpful and easier to navigate through these big datasets hosted on IPFS and other distributed storages.
